Problem: missing high-level docs for x/cronos (#183)
crypto-org-chain/cronos: x/cronos/spec/01_concepts.md

 <!-- order: 1 -->

# Concepts

## Cronos

> Cronos is the name of Crypto.org EVM Chain, also the name of the main module that glues multiple components together for Cronos chain.

Author: done

## Gas Token

Cronos use CRO as the gas token.

The CROs on the Cronos chain need to be transferred from the Crypto.org chain through an IBC channel, they arrive on the Cronos chain as IBC tokens first, then get converted to the gas token automatically.

### Decimal Places Conversion

The CRO on the Crypto.org chain has 8 decimals, while the Cronos gas token has 18 decimals (to keep compatibility with Ethereum). So a conversion needs to be done:

- When transferring CRO to Cronos chain, the decimal places of the amount are expanded to 18.
- When transferring CRO from Cronos chain, the amount is truncated to 8 decimals, the remaining part is left in Cronos, so the total value is preserved.

## Native Token

Native token is a token managed by cosmos native bank module, there are several kinds of native tokens in Cronos:

- gas token. used to pay the gas fee.
- staking token. used to do PoA consensus.
- IBC token. tokens come from IBC channels.
- gravity token. tokens come from the gravity bridge.

## CRC20 Token

> CRC20 token is Cronos's equivalence of ERC20 token on Ethereum with some extensions, they can be mapped with native tokens and support transfer to/from native tokens, and potentially transfer to/from Ethereum and another cosmos chain through gravity bridge and IBC.

Reviewer: I think the short description `CRC20 token is Cronos's equivalence of ERC20 token on Ethereum with some extensions` is enough.

We probably want to have more details in another sections for CRC proposal

Author: The CRC standard can be described in another place, not necessarily a part of Cronos module spec I think.

<!--
order: 1
-->

# Concepts

## Cronos

Cronos is the name of Crypto.org EVM Chain, also the module that glue multiple components together.

## Gas Token

Cronos use CRO as the gas token.

The CROs on Cronos chain need to transfered from Crypto.org chain through IBC channel, they arrive in Cronos chain as IBC tokens first, then get converted to gas token automatically.

### Decimal Places Conversion

The CRO on Crypto.org chain has 8 decimals, while Cronos gas token has 18 decimals (to keep compatibility with Ethereum). So a convertion need to be done:

- When transfer CRO to Cronos chain, the decimal places of the amount are expanded to 18.
- When transfer CRO from Cronos chain, the amount are truncated to 8 decimals, the remaining part is left in Cronos, so the total value is preserved.

> 

Author: there's a specific doc to cover the messages.

 <!-- order: 1 -->

# Concepts

## Cronos

Cronos is an EVM chain in Crypto.org ecosystem. It allows users to deploy and interact with smart contracts. Powered by Ethermint, it is built using cosmos SDK which allows to leverage to full capability of the cosmos ecosystem. It is also connected to the ethereum network with the gravity bridge integration (WIP).

> Bridging asset from cosmos or ethereum are automatically converted to a CRC20 asset when moved to Cronos which make it extremely easy to integrate with existing web3 tools.

Reviewer 2: maybe a link to CRC20 definition?

Reviewer 2: oh, it's briefly described below -- but may be good to link the actual crc20 doc describing the interface

The Cronos module glues IBC, gravity bridge and ethermint together through hooks and token mapping.

## Gas Token

> Cronos use CRO as the gas token.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cronos uses CRO as its gas token.
```

> The CROs on the Cronos chain need to be transferred from the Crypto.org chain through an IBC channel. The tokens arrive on the Cronos chain as IBC tokens first, then automatically convert to the gas token. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The CRO assets on the Cronos Chain need to be transferred from the Crypto.org Chain through an IBC channel. The tokens arrive on the Cronos Chain as IBC tokens first, then are automatically converted to the gas token. 
```

### Decimal Places Conversion

The CRO on the Crypto.org chain has 8 decimals, while the Cronos gas token has 18 decimals (to keep compatibility with Ethereum). So a conversion is done automatically:

- When transferring CRO to Cronos chain, the decimal places of the amount are expanded to 18.
- When transferring CRO from Cronos chain, the amount is truncated to 8 decimals, the remaining part is left in Cronos, so the total value is preserved.

## Native Token

Native token is a token managed by cosmos native bank module, there are several kinds of native tokens in Cronos:

- gas token. used to pay the gas fee.
- staking token. used to do PoA consensus.
- IBC token. tokens come from IBC channels.
- gravity token. tokens come from the gravity bridge.

## CRC20 Token

CRC20 token is Cronos's equivalence of ERC20 token on Ethereum with some extensions, they can be mapped with native tokens and support transfer to/from native tokens, and potentially transfer to/from Ethereum and another cosmos chain through gravity bridge and IBC.

## Auto-deployed Contract

> A contract whose byte code is embedded in Cronos module and deployed by it, and some operations in it are only authorized to Cronos module. These contracts can be trusted by Cronos module directly. Currently, Cronos module support auto-deploy a minimal CRC20 contract to support automatic wrapping native token in EVM.

Reviewer 2: maybe linking the contract description or sketching out its code?
